>> If you and I are in a fight,
you bring a piece of the truth,
and I bring a
piece of the truth.
If we're really going to resolve
this in a way that both of us
are satisfied, both
of those truths
have to be brought into the mix.
Otherwise, one of us
is going to dominate.
The other one is
going to submit.
And that's just a game where
I'll dominate this time,
and you'll dominate
the next time.
And in 10 years, we're going
to be filled with resentment.
>> Are you intimate
in your marriage?
Do you feel you
have real intimacy?
We have two wonderful doctors of
psychology and clinical doctors
here who have written
a book called "The New
Intimacy Discovering
the Magic at the Heart
of Your Differences."
And their names are Judith
Shervin and James Sniechowski.
You two are married people.
>> Yes.
>> That's right.
>> 10 years.
Now, one of the things that I
have noticed among people who
have been married just a few
years-- you've kind of crossed,
what, the seven-year itch
that they talk about--
is that they get married
with such tremendous feelings
of promise, such high hopes
for this relationship.
And something happens.
>> Well, to be fair,
think about it.
People get no relationship
training in our culture.
They have to receive
driver's ed training
to get a driver's license.
People have to have training
and pass a test just
to cut our hair.
And yet, for one of the
most difficult things we do,
is to put two distinctly
different peoples' lives
together, hopefully, for
the rest of their lives,
and usually bring children into
that union, with no training,
no formal preparation
whatsoever.
All they have to go on is what
their parents' relationship
was like.
And for most people, they
don't want a relationship just
like their parents.
So there's no model
for how to have
a truly satisfying and
rich intimate relationship.
>> One of my favorite
ideas in the book--
and it's actually Judith's--
it's in the context of, you
wouldn't go to a hair cutter
if they didn't have a license
or a mechanic if they
didn't have a license.
And what she wrote was,
if you needed surgery,
would you trust your
surgery to someone
whose only credential was a
deep longing to be a surgeon?
And yet, you'll give your
heart, and your children,
and your life to that
kind of situation.
And we do it day,
after day, after day.
>> So how do we change?
What do we do?
>> Well, we have to have a
realistic idea of what marriage
requires.
>> What is marriage?
>> Marriage is the process
of bringing love into form.
That's my definition
of marriage.
Now, it's a little abstract.
What that means is that
what exists here between us
is brought into
form so that when
you look at this
relationship, it
has a particular character,
a particular texture,
a particular emotional feel.
And it is our job
in this marriage
to keep that fertilized,
and fructified, and alive.
So for me, there is love.
But love, like anything
else-- love is like a plant.
If you don't water it, if you
don't focus on it, it will die.
And it dies everyday
in people's lives.
It's the task of
keeping that love alive
and bringing it into the world.
>> And what we show in the book
is that one of the major ways
to do what Jim is talking about
is to open to the differences
between the two people.
The differences
can cause conflict.
>> But most people marry someone
who likes to do what they like
to do.
>> To some degree, that's
always going to be the case.
But there are also going
to be many ways that they
are different, even if
it just comes down to,
as some clients of mine
once got into a fight
over, how to put the
shelving up in the garage.
He had one way.
She had another way.
They fought about it for hours.
What we encourage is for
people to really respect
those differences and
explore them with curiosity.
Because think about it.
If I deny Jim being somebody
distinctly different from me,
then I don't really
love who he is.
I love some idea
that I've concocted.
But when he is
distinctly him, then we
can have an expansive
relationship.
But if I insist that
he become like me,
the relationship
stays this size.
It's static.
I already know who I am.
And it gets boring and dull,
which so many people complain
about in their marriages.
>> As simple as it may
sound, Judith is not me.
Now, that may be
patently obvious.
She's there.
I'm here.
She's female.
I male, et cetera.
But people go into
relationships particularly
with unconscious
fantasies of what
it should be like, unconscious
expectations of what
the other person should be like.
And so the other
person is really not
somebody distinct from them.
They are merely an extension
of their own imagery,
their own imagination,
their own projection.
So the phrase, she is not
me, is a profound statement.
Because that means I have to
try and find out who she is.
If she's not me, it behooves
me to find out who she is.
And if people took anything away
from what we are talking about,
that particular moment would
expand their relationship
possibilities immensely.
Because they could actually
go into the world looking
for someone.
>> So what we're really geared
is to try to make somebody over
when we get married so
that they're like us.
And that is what causes the
stultification and the boredom?
>> The boredom and
so much abrasiveness.
Because think about it,
Corinne, do you really
want somebody to make
you over into his image?
No.
I mean, you want somebody who--
>> I've had a couple of men try.
>> "Try" is the operative term.
Try is all they did.
>> But you want somebody to
love you for being who you are.
So the old way
was people sort of
tried to make each other over.
What we're teaching in
our book is the new way,
which is to learn
creative, inventive ways
that this relationship can
keep getting expansive, where
both of us can use the
differences to learn
from each other,
to keep growing,
to even heal the old,
wounded parts that we bring
from childhood, and to have
what we call serial monogamy
with the same person.
So the relationship
keeps changing,
keeps getting more delicious.
And you can stay together.
And it doesn't
get boring at all.
>> But our expectation
is that we get married,
we walk off in the sunset,
we get along, we don't fight,
we don't have disputes, or
else, it must not be right.
>> Exactly.
>> People ask us,
what's the old intimacy?
The idea that you just
expressed, from my perspective,
comes from the old intimacy.
In the old intimacy, the
purpose of a marriage
was to procreate
to have children
and to basically sustain
the structure of either
the religion, the
community, or the culture.
It didn't much matter
whether or not the two of you
cared for each other.
Your job was to
do, basically, what
the community needed you to do.
In that content--
>> Or the church.
>> Or the church, precisely.
In that context, you
don't want to fight.
You want to be
pretty much alike.
Because who you are is
really not relevant.
And if you fight, and
if you break the rules,
the community is going
to come down on you.
In this century,
in this culture--
and we are the leaders
in the world with respect
to what we're talking
about-- men and women
are free to choose who
they want to be with.
We are far more mobile than
any society has ever been.
So I am going to--
I'm from Detroit.
I met Judith in Los Angeles.
That, in and of
itself, is a difference
that has to be integrated.
So as a consequence,
there will be differences.
There aren't going to be two
couples, who are really alive,
who are not going
to stay together
for a long period of
time without clashing,
without fighting.
And we don't mince around.
We don't use the word
"conflict" to get away from it.
They're fights.
The point is--
>> Do you fight?
>> Yes!
>> Absolutely, absolutely.
We still do.
Yes, we do.
The point here is
that when you go
into the expectation
of no fighting,
and everything is going
to be calm sailing,
you are really denying the
very vitality of your own being
and the other person's being.
And bring a child into
that relationship,
and the child, from
the get to, completely
belies all of those ideas.
He or she is squabbling,
complaining, demanding,
doing all of those things that
you're not supposed to do.
Sadly, and oftentimes,
those children
are molded into what
we're talking about.
And they go on.
And they replicate those
kinds of relationships.
>> And they go
out and make nice.
>> Absolutely.
>> Exactly.
But what we're teaching
people, in the book
and in our trainings,
is that fighting
can be a spiritual workout.
What we mean by that--
>> Well, you've got kind of
fair-fighting rules here.
>> Yes.
>> And they were
kind of interesting.
It said here, let see--
>> Chapter 9.
Well, one of them I remember
was no dirty fighting.
>> Right.
>> No character--
>> Assassination.
>> --assassination, name
calling, mockery, hitting--
[INAUDIBLE] with a fight if you
can't do some of these things.
>> But then you're out to
really destroy the other person.
And we call we call
that "killing."
Because you're
really out to just
win and wipe out your partner.
But if you really
want your marriage
to sustain, a fight
occurs, what we teach,
is in the wilderness, where
the two people haven't
resolved their issues so far.
And if I understand that,
when I'm angry at Jim,
I'm bringing myself
into the relationship
by expressing the anger,
I'm stepping closer to him,
I'm saying this has to
change, I'm unhappy, I'm mad,
he steps back in, and he
says, well, I'm angry,
this annoys me.
Now, we have the
opportunity to really bring
in some new material,
listen to each other
a little more differently
when we can calm down,
and really listen.
And when we can
understand that both of us
are bringing a
piece of the truth,
neither one of us
having the whole truth--
>> And that's the key.
>> --then we can get
creative, and inventive,
and find a resolution so that
the relationship gets larger
to include both of us.
>> Well, is there ever an
impasse there is no resolution?
>> Yes, there
non-negotiable differences.
For example, when
Judith and I met,
had I, for example, wanted
a child, and she did not,
there are some basics that
people will not resolve,
and that will tear a
relationship apart.
And what we suggest and argue
is that people lay those out
on the table in the early
onset of the relationship
to see if this relationship
has possibilities.
But once you understand
what those are--
and you can go into them, so you
negotiate what the boundaries
are going to be and how the two
people are going to behave with
one another--
the differences
thereafter are gifts.
They're not problems.
>> We're having fascinating
discussion here on marriage
and the new intimacy.
So stay with us.
We'll be right back.
>> We're talking about
the new intimacy.
And in particular,
we're talking right now
about fighting in marriage.
Well, a lot of people out
there are saying, well,
you shouldn't fight.
>> That's a sad thing when
people believe that if you are
angry at somebody, it must
mean you don't love them.
That's nonsense.
If I love Jim, and he
treats me in some way that
hurts my feelings, out
of my love and my desire
for the relationship to go
forward and be healthier,
I must confront him.
I must bring up the issue
and call his attention to it,
educate him about
who I am, how I feel,
so that he can
understand me and change
in whatever ways we
can develop together
that will feel OK to him.
>> And also discover
who I am in the context.
Because a fight-- a fair
fight, a fight that has rules,
a fight that has containment,
a fight that does not include--
>> No name calling.
Because that's--
>> No hitting.
>> Of course.
>> No hitting
>> Now, that's
way out of bounds.
>> Listen with curiosity.
>> Because neither one of
us has the whole truth.
If you and I are in a fight,
you bring a piece of the truth,
and I bring a
piece of the truth.
If we're really going to resolve
this in a way that both of us
are satisfied, both
of those truths
have to be brought into the mix.
Otherwise, one of us
is going to dominate,
the other one is
going to submit.
And that's just a game where
I'll dominate this time,
and you'll dominate
the next time.
And in 10 years, we're going
to be filled with resentment.
But a fight is a
way of saying, I
love you enough
that I will not let
this go on with the possibility
of damaging this relationship.
I am making my announcement
and my claim clear.
>> How much honesty in marriage?
>> How much in marriage?
>> How much honesty is good?
Do you tell your
husband everything,
even though you know he's
going to use it against you?
>> Oh, now, but see, even though
he's going to use it against
you, we would argue
that's dirty fighting.
>> That's dirty fighting.
>> That's not loving.
If I can't trust
Jim to hear what
I am giving him as a gift--
>> Even though I
may not like it.
>> All, you have a girlfriend
that he can't stand.
>> All right.
>> So you have decided, rather
than ever mentioning that
you've seen Sally for lunch,
because you know it says--
he says she's stupid, why do you
bother with someone like that,
she's always in
trouble, bububah,
bububbah, what about
not telling him?
>> Oh, see, we propose that,
before anybody needs to come
to a conclusion not to tell,
there's a basic lack of respect
for differences in the
story you just told.
In reality, Jim had a friend,
when we first knew each other,
that I did not like at all.
But I respected the
fact that he's not me.
And he did like the fellow.
And I just made it
clear, I didn't want
to be involved in the meetings.
On a big party, I could
put up the prison.
I didn't have to
keep that secret
as long as he respected
my differences
and that I didn't like him.
>> And you said, keep
that guy out of my hair.
>> Yes.
>> Period, end of story.
>> Not end of story.
Here's the difference.
Judith then went on
to say, what about him
is so attractive to you?
Why do you enjoy him?
What do you get from him?
What do you like?
What do you dislike?
She didn't just wipe him out.
Because if she wiped him out,
and I like him, part of me gets
wiped out.
And then the relationship
is smaller than it might be.
So she encouraged a
discussion and said,
I want to know what
you feel about him.
And what I was able
to tell her was
able to open her consciousness
to who this guy was.
That doesn't mean
she has to like him.
But she knows him
better so that, when
I'm going out with him,
she's got some better
idea of what I'm doing.
And when I come back, and
I say, we did this or that,
she says, all right,
and vice versa.
Otherwise, if she
keeps it a secret--
I'll make it mine--
she has a friend that I don't
like, and I keep it a secret,
I begin to build a little
secret emotional room.
And I begin to withdraw.
That little piece
of me withdraws
from the relationship.
I begin to have an affair with
my own emotions outside of her.
I can't show her.
I'm afraid of her.
She'll be condemnatory,
or whatever.
And I begin to develop
this relationship.
And if that gets
large enough, it's
going to be more
important than she is.
And then I'm gone.
>> And I will begin to develop
some sense that he's keeping
something from me.
I don't know what.
>> We all know
everything, don't we.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> We don't know
exactly what it is.
But we all pickup.
>> Exactly.
So I will begin to
lose trust in him.
Now, I'll become suspicious.
And little, by
little, by little,
we erode the love
that is so wonderful.
So we would argue that there's
very little that a couple can't
tell each other, as long as
the differences between them
are valued and respected,
as long as they
don't have to turn each other
into a clone of themselves.
Then they can enjoy the richness
of two entirely different
selves.
>> Do you feel you have
to do everything together?
>> No.
>> No, not at all.
>> I mean, do spend
time with other friends?
And do you spend time
with other friends?
How much of the time?
>> Well, because we write
together, and teach together,
and travel together, not--
>> I would say about 15%, 20%.
>> That's about right.
>> I have a men's group
that I attend weekly.
I have good men
friends that I go out.
And we'll just go out, and
sit, and have a cup of coffee,
and talk.
And I need that.
I think it's criminal
for a man-- or a woman,
but I'll speak for
myself-- for a man
to have no emotional support
outside of the relationship
and then come back
and expect that she's
going to provide it all.
She can never do that.
Because she's not large
enough, even if she's a giant.
And also, I need, sometimes,
just to sit with the guys,
regardless of what we do.
Because I get fed by that.
>> And we like to
sit with the girls.
>> Absolutely.
>> I mean, nobody understands
you like another woman, right?
>> In that way.
Jim can understand me in some
ways that some women can't.
But certainly, a girlfriend,
there's that kind of simpatico.
>> We don't fix
it for each other.
We let each other talk.
>> That's right.
>> That's the difference.
>> And there also--
>> May I interrupt?
And with men, it's
the same thing.
What happens is
that, oftentimes,
when the genders come
together, all of the mishigas
starts to happen.
But I hang out with my
friends, they don't fix it.
They just listen.
>> They don't?
>> Absolutely.
>> Well, men always try
to fix it for women.
>> That's-- there is a truth.
>> They say, quit that job.
>> Right, do that.
All right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Sell that car.
>> I think that's an expression
of men being raised to be
the protectors for women.
I think when we
change that, and have
men and women be on
more equal footing, that
will go out of fashion.
>> Yeah, I think that's an old
cultural stereotype that we are
raised with.
And I do it.
This morning, Judith was making
a phone call to Los Angeles.
And something happened.
And I said, no,
do this, do that.
And as a consequence
of my saying that,
it got all confused.
And so she didn't end
up with it anyway.
>> I can remember when
I was first widowed,
which was quite a
few years ago now,
and a policeman stopping me
because my sticker had expired
four months ago.
My license plate had
expired six months ago.
And he said, do you
know this, lady?
And I said, I didn't know it.
He said, how come
you don't know?
I said, women don't
do those things.
I didn't get stickers.
It was part of the deal.
>> It was part of the old
way of doing intimacy.
>> How did he respond to
that, do you remember?
>> He said, I'm sorry
your husband died.
But you're the one that's going
to have to show up in court.
So I would suggest
you get the stickers.
But then he said
something so sweet.
This was a very burly cop.
He said, I want to
tell you something.
He said, it's none
of my business.
But I just looked at the
sticker on the side of your car,
the oil has not been
changed in 6,000 miles.
Change it.
But he still gave
me two tickets.
I mean, that was the
way I was brought up.
Men, that was their job.
They took care of
cars, licenses.
Right we didn't do that.
And, you know, I still
think they should.
I hate to do stuff like that.
>> And certainly,
in the new intimacy,
both people can do lots of
different things that the other
doesn't.
But they need to
be on equal footing
and really mutually
respectful of the differences
between each other.
>> What's the biggest-- if you
had to pinpoint the biggest
problem between married people
today that could be solved
in one statement
from you, what is it?
>> I would say that they don't
have a realistic expectation
of what we call love work that's
required to keep the two lives
growing and getting
richer together.
>> And my response is that they
really don't understand that
they're different
from one another,
and they respect
those differences.
They really don't understand--
to use a phrase I used
earlier--
that she's not me.
And if I don't
understand that, and I
expect her to be who I am,
I'll kill her emotionally,
unless she leaves.
And then she's off
to do something else.
I think that's critical.
>> It seems to me that one
of the problems that I notice
among people is that everybody's
trying to get everything from
one person.
And you literally cannot
get it from one person.
You've got to spread-- you've
got to go out with the guys.
We have to go shopping
together, and talk, and--
it's hard.
>> But marriage is a place where
people can develop themselves,
if they're open to not just
getting, but also giving,
and learning that give and
take, and both parts are loving.
>> One part here that you said
here in the book was about
vulnerability to each other.
And I think that's
something that we
neglect a lot, is to say to
someone we love, I'm scared.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yes.
>> I'm hurting.
>> Absolutely.
>> I need.
I need you to hold me.
I've got some old baggage
that's come up here.
And would you just hang in
there with me for a minute
while I talk about it?
>> And that's the only way you
can ultimately trust a love.
Because when I bring
you my vulnerability,
and you still love
me, you love me whole.
And I can trust that
you really love me.
You just don't love me
for the show on the flash.
>> Well, do you think
that we love each other
because of our
vulnerabilities more?
>> Ultimately, yes.
Yes, that's the
only way we really
can make that deep bond, that
deep, intimate connection.
>> Well, Judy and Jim,
wow, what a wonderful,
wonderful meeting with you.
>> Thank you very much.
>> I would really suggest that
you make sure you read this
book, "The New Intimacy
Discovering the Magic
at the Heart of
Your Differences."
It's for single people.
It's for married people.
It's a miracle.
Keep coming back.